As a freshman, and that's my understanding, I was number one in the class at mid-semester, and I was still in the top ten percent at the end of the semester, and which meant that I was uncertain about where I would fit into the big scheme of things and made a big effort.
And after that I was, I did well, I was not in that category.
But in retrospect, I was very well trained or educated, and I think that the other Aggies were very well educated.
We were not anywhere near in trouble ever, let's put it that way.
Using that theme, what were the key factors
in this preparation what did A&M do right with its student body in those years well first of all you had a lot of attention from people who were professors it's my understanding that with the great increase in size of the university so much is delegated to teaching assistants and so forth but we were taught by professors
And in chemistry lab, there might be a student teaching assistant.
But even there, the professor would be walking through, and if you had something to say to him or ask him, he would be available for you.
But we were taught entirely, I mean whether it was freshman English or anything, and I spoke of, for example, history.
Ralph Steen taught me Texas history, and we received a lot of attention.
We did have big lectures in the, you know, 200 students in the chemistry lecture room or something in freshman chemistry, but after that we were in a small room with a man who had been teaching for 20 years.
And that was true of English classes and history.
foreign languages.
I mean, these were not big classes, and a lot of attention from the professors.
The other thing was, at least in the sciences, in biology in particular, in chemistry, and physics too, I guess, your grade reflected what you were doing.
People were not worried about diversity or gender or anything.
You just got what you got.
And there was not a lot of remedial activity going on.
I mean, you know, you just performed when you were supposed to.
And I think that particularly helped us in medical school because we had been
our effortability had been developed by the time we got to Galveston.
And incidentally, I went to the University of Texas to go around in Baylor.
Oh, you got the letter that you had been accepted.
Oh, I see.
My dad made that decision.
He said, you will go to the University of Texas.
That was his.
Well, in those days, there was a cost differential too, wasn't there?
Yeah.
Do you remember what, for trivia, do you remember what a year in medical school cost?
Oh, practically nothing at the state school.
We had, well, specifically $40 a semester.
And, you know, A&M at that time, I'm not talking about the room and board, it ran up to about $2.50 a semester, but your entry fee at A&M was $25.
And that took care of everything, you know.
When you got to the medical school?
Did it matter that you had been at Texas A&M and the way people reacted to you, treated you?
Oh, well, of course, everybody, you were an Aggie or something like that.
You were teased about it.
Yeah, you get teased a little bit.
But what did the, what do you think the medical faculty, did they have any?
Most of them didn't matter much.
The professor of biochemistry, who fortunately was partly retired, he was not the department head, but he apparently didn't like A&M students.
I can remember Dr. Grant, who was an older doctor here when I came to practice, saying that was true when he was a student, you know.
And so with Dr. Hendricks, if he wandered down the
in the laboratory and stopped at your desk, you tried your best not to let him know you'd been to A&M.
But except for that, there was no, nothing.
All right, three questions left.
First of those, what did it mean to you, what has it meant to you that you went to Texas A&M?
What had... Well,
Uh...
Well, I'm very proud to have been to A&M.
That's the first thing.
And in some ways, probably my feeling about A&M is one of a lifelong identification, more than that of four years, having grown up on the campus.
And my dad was at A&M for 35 years.
And his brother, who was a graduate of A&M, came from Tennessee to take veterinary medicine.
And incidentally, my children have gone to A&M, and my brother went to A&M two years before he went to Annapolis.
And even at the grand parental level,
The brother of one grandfather took premed at NM before going to Tulane in 1894 or five or something.
And the interesting thing is that part of my dad's family had come from Tennessee to Texas before the Civil War.
And one of my grandfather's Tennessee first cousins was in the first class radio.
Anyway, I've always just sort of felt part of A&M.
If a person would come here, things like young practice and all that stuff would be so much more his feeling about A&M.
For me, it is a feeling, but it's part of the whole picture.
What if someone were to give you a million dollar check now, only one condition.
You must give it to Texas A&M, but you get to decide what it would be used for.
What would it be?
Well, I've been somewhat identified with the med school, and so I would probably
I think what takes $500,000 to endow a chair, I would probably endow one chair, and then the rest of it would go to student scholarships, I think.
And on what basis would those be awarded?
Of course, they would be president-type scholarships of that size.
And I think I would...
Well, I don't know.
I think I would let the university make that decision.
Say, with that much money, there would be, what, four or five scholarships in addition to the chair.
I think I'd set one aside to not be given until a person was a junior.
And a person who had shown great increase in aptitude would get that scholarship.
I've often thought that's a kind of a forgotten part.
Here is someone who comes in here and doesn't realize they have this better potential.
Yeah.
It would be an encouragement.
Okay, then the last question follows this.
What feelings do you have in your heart for A&M today?
I like A&M today.
Actually, since I've retired, I've been working on a volunteer basis in the leadership and humanities programs.
This means one day a week in the fall semester.
I've been very impressed with the students.
I like their positive kids.
It's a very stimulating environment.
In fact, I thought my mother and dad lived to be 88 and 93 respectively and died of cancer problems, not heart or
old age problems, but I've always thought that the stimulus they had from being with younger people, and I might add it continued, because even though these people would come back who were dad's athletes or who dad had known first or something, they had a continuing contact with people, a generation younger than they were.
throughout their lives, and it really was a, I think, made their older years so much more positive and with it, too, you know.
Let's quit with that.